Erica Robin, congratulations. Thank you so much. First of all, you look gorgeous. Thank you. And you are the first ever… That's right. …Universe Pakistan ever. Yes, after 71 years. That is really amazing. Exactly. You must be so excited to represent your country in a pageant. You're going to go down in history… That is right. …as the first. How does this make you feel? It feels amazing. More than excited, as you mentioned, I am more grateful and humbled for this opportunity. And I want to thank Miss Universe for believing in Pakistani women that, you know, we can come out of our comfort zone and compete in a competition and show the world that we are not less than anyone. Yeah.
It hasn't been very popular for Pakistani women to join Miss Universe pageants. What made you want to go into this field? So to be honest, there are no pageants in my country. So this is the first time that Miss Universe has given the opportunity to Pakistani women. And if I think about my journey, initially I started off looking at Shilpa Sen because I'm a huge, huge fan. So I knew what kind of criteria it is, what are they looking for. Initially I was very excited. But as soon as I was crowned from Miss Universe, that's the time when I actually learned the responsibility, what I have, the platform, after I was crowned. And that gave me a purpose in life to work towards my advocacy that I've been always looking forward to.
What was the reaction of your family when you told them that you are going to join the Miss Pakistan Universe, which was held in the Maldives? And that's a message for all the other parents as well, just support your daughters, just support them, and they can make wonders and make histories. Okay, so before we continue, I just want to say that for the first time, Ericka is showing her national costume when you tried to stand up. It just arrived from Pakistan. Yes. So tell us about this beautiful creation. Yes. So this is the first time I wore this outfit. I'm so filled with emotions, and I just want to thank Khadi, the one who made this outfit, with so much love. And I have so much to share, so I'll just take it step by step. First, let's go with the color. So black is my beautiful color. This is the color that I chose when I was crowned for Miss Universe Pakistan as well. And I was just sitting and discussing with the team what should be the second color.
This outfit is representing all the women in Pakistan, but I wanted to, you know, dedicate this to the special woman in my life, that is my mother. So that's why we chose the color pink, because the outfit was designed in October, as the awareness of breast cancer, and she's a survivor. She's a survivor, so this pink color is dedicated to her. And if we talk about the design, as you can see, the shells, the sequins, all from Pakistan. Let me tell you, except the fabric, everything is handmade, each and everything. If you see the thread work, the coins, everything. It actually represents the women in Pakistan, because art and craft is their life force. And I want to send this message to all that, and that's one of my advocacy as well, to promote arts and feel for women in Pakistan, to just come out of their comfort zone, not to just sit at home and do it, but to go outside and embrace it and celebrate it, and that's the message. Yeah, you've been in the spotlight, because, like you said, we're one of the prides that Pakistan has in representing the Atomic Universe. When you get to El Salvador, what message do you want to say, what do you want the world to know about, not just women, but about your country? So this is the first time after 71 years that Pakistan is being represented. I want to tell the world that no matter where you come from, no matter what your background is, I don't come from a rich family, but what I do have is a purpose in life. And the purpose is not just for me and myself, it's for others as well. So I believe if your goal in life is to be a better person and to see the change in the world, the whole universe will help you out to achieve it all, though there were many difficulties that I faced as soon as I was crowned, but I stand here as an empowered woman and so ready to participate and show what Pakistan has to offer.
You look empowered. Thank you for allowing me to see your beautiful yarn. I think it's also a fan, right? Oh yes, that's the fan. I'm going to use that as a prop to estimate the culture and the climate of our region. It's a handmade fan that is used by everyone, not just women, but men as well. Oh really? What about this necklace? Oh, this is also handmade. As I mentioned, everything is handmade. And this is Boho ethnic jewelry, which also promotes the ethnicity and diversity of my country. Now, your national director is a Filipino. That is right. Josh, a good friend of mine. How has he been to you, and how has he helped you in this journey so far? I understand you've been in the Philippines for one month. Yes.
Thank you. See, when I came, I had mixed feelings, you know, a little fear because, again, you know, when you step in a new country, this is my first time in the Philippines. So when you go as a tourist or to work, you know, you just expect the people to, you know, accept you. And it's been a month. Now, Philippines feels like home. It's my second home now. I can proudly say the love, the warmth, and the hospitality that I receive is immense. I've traveled to other countries as well, but I was amazed because, unfortunately, I wasn't able to celebrate in my own country because of, you know, winning. So in the Philippines, this was my first ever public appearance, and I was absolutely stunned. And I hear you love Filipino food. Yes, I love it. I'm a foodie. And I'm also a disclaimer for the people who think that models and beauty queens don't eat. No, we do. Okay, what are your favorite Filipino foods that you have tried? Oh, there's so many. Halo-halo. Halo-halo? Yes. You like ube ice cream? Oh, yes. I love ube. And pandesal. Pandesal? I don't know. What's your style of pandesal? I've tried two. One is the plain bread, and the other one I tried with sausage. I think that was the first thing that I tried as soon as I landed in the Philippines. Also, I tried adobo. Adobo? Adobo, yeah. So my national director feeds me so much. We're both foodies, so that's her favorite part of the day. And, of course, you love rice. Oh, yes. I'm a rice lover. Oh, that's also something very common in Pakistan and Philippines, that we can eat rice for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Yeah. So you're coming from a modeling background. That is right. It's very different from pageantry, the walk, and the whole purpose. I guess you've changed in the last month that you've been here. Tell me about your transformation from model to beauty queen.
Oh, it's a complete 360-angle change. When I stepped in, I was very confident that, oh, I've been practicing modeling for three years, what is going to be easy? But it's very different. And I really want to thank all my trainers, especially Ian Lawrence, that he's transformed and, you know, he turned my weaknesses into strengths. Yes, and how to embrace it. So I'm really, really thankful to Ian and all my trainers. Because we went through mental training, walk training, Q&A, so there were a lot of things. But I'm glad. Once I step on the stage on Miss Universe platform, I am so ready, and it's because of my team. So thank you so much. That's beautiful. And your wardrobe is going to be also Filipino design. That is right. So my national costume is by one of the celebrated designers from Pakistan, Khadi. And the final gown is from a Filipino designer. I'm not sure if I can really say the name. It's a secret. A Filipino designer? Yes, a Filipino. For the preview and the final? That is right. Wow. And did you have a say in the creation of the gown? Yes, we've named the gown. Can I tell the name? So we've named The One. The One. The One. The reason behind it is I am from the one-person minorities of my country. This is one of the reasons. And my flag color is green and white. Green is the majority and white is the minority. In the flag. Yes, so we've kept the gown white-silver. And The One, because, again, the first ever one person from the minorities and also the color. So we've put everything together and that's how we created a masterpiece.
Thank you. And I think I just met Michelle Z here in the Philippines. How was it? How was your dinner? What did you share about it? Oh, it was so good. So when I initially, when I stepped into a pageant world, you know, the first term that came into my mind is it's a competition, right? But when I met all the beauty queens, also my co-sisters, Miss Rilbhari and Egypt, it didn't really feel like a competition because, again, this is a platform to invest in yourself and to help other people. So it's a platform to invest in yourself and to help other people. And I think that's what's so exciting about it. And they've been my helping hand when I met Michelle Z as well. She was so humble. And we had a really long conversation. We went out for dinner. And that is what taught me a very strong message that you win when you help someone and, you know, when you are, when you can be a helping hand. I like that. You win when you can help someone. That is right. That is right. I love that. You don't have to have the crown.
It's just a little act of helping somebody. Oh, I like that. I like that. You mentioned Smitherspan as one of your, as one of the women that you admire. Are there other beauty queens that you, I guess you've watched since you decided you were going to join? I've been watching all the videos, though I've watched the 1994 Sushmita Sen's episode 10,000 times. 10,000 times? Yes, she's not even my favorite, my mom's favorite as well. Her answer, right? Yes, she is. I think she's the woman who just speaks so gracefully. I mean, she doesn't even have to say anything. Her aura speaks louder. With a voice, though. Yes, true, true. And a purpose. She's done amazing, wonderful work as soon as she was crowned. That was another message, that it's not just for the year that I have the title. This journey is going to go a lifetime. What I've decided is that it's not just going to stay for Miss Universe Pakistan 2023, the title that I have. It's going to be a long, long way. Other than Sushmita Sen, what other videos did you watch? I watched a lot of pageant videos, but who I really got inspired with was Catriona Grace. Because I met her at the ball. You were there as well. I met you. And of course, she's a star. And as she entered, you know, there were a lot of paparazzis. People wanted to meet her. But Miss Universe Bahrain and I were wearing a sash. And she noticed. And the first thing that, as she entered, was she came to us. And she asked, do you have any questions before going to the competition? I'm here to help you out. I was just shocked and stunned at that time. I just want to take a minute because I'm just starstruck at the moment. 
Because it's the Catriona Gray in front of me. So again, you know, personalities like these teach you a lesson that to be humble, to be grounded, and to just support each and every woman who you think can make a change. I was just standing, but she did give us advices that, you know, always be on time. Again, be punctual and just be ready because it's a competition. It's going to be tough. So just be mentally prepared. She said before any preparation, you need to be mentally stable and prepared because again, you know, it's going to be tough. It's your first ever pageant. That is right. Miss Universe. First and last, I think. Because again, it's Miss Universe. So are you ready? Yes. Now I can definitely say I am ready. And it's all because of my team, because of Josh, and you know, when I came up, I wasn't really prepared because again, this is a complete different life journey for me.
But with all the trainings and everything, now I can finally say that I am ready. And you're going to be wearing not a suit? No, I am not. Yes, I'll be wearing a bikini because, again, I'm the first one, and I'm the one who will be stepping in to open the doors for other women in my country. I was privileged, and I had a chance to step in, but I'm sure there are many other women that need an example, that any woman can participate. You can look beautiful and modest at the same time. And this is the message that I want to tell, that just come out of your comfort zone, and if you have a purpose, and you think you are confident enough, you can just embrace, you can just wear anything that you want. I love your confidence. Thank you. And your beauty is glowing from within. Thank you, thank you, thank you. So thanks to Josh. Thank you. Thank you, and thank you in your language. In my language, yes. Can I say the full sentence? Yes. [URDU]. Okay. We are going to Miss Universe, and this is Miss Universe Pakistan. Hello Universe.